**Regression - Retail Sales Prediction**

**Project Summary -**

Rossman Sales Prediction data contains historical sales data for a retail store chain. The data includes information about the store such as Competitior’s Detail, holiday’s, number of the customers, sale transaction's date and amount of sale on each day. We were tasked to forecast the "Sales" for the test set.

After understanding the data and getting variables, we first gathered and cleaned the data, handled the null values and finally for getting better results we merged two datasets after that we have also typecasted the needed features into required format by type casting in order to visualize them properly. We performed indepth EDA and plotted different types of graphs by separating them into univariate, bivariate and multivariate categories as a result, We came accross some meaningful insights that helped us to make future decisions of ML model pipeline. Then further on, using feature engineering and data preprocessing we have extracted new features like PromoDuration and CompetitionDuration with the help of some features which are not directly impacting to Sales. We also tried to get some impacting features by removing multicollinearity within the independent variables with the help of various inflation factor(VIF). Under the umbrella of feature engineering we have detected and treated the outliers with the help of IQR technique and capped all the outliers of continous features in 25-75 percentile. Also, we noticed that some of the features were categorical in nature and ML model can not understand the language of alphabets(strings).So, we have encoded them into numericals using One-Hot Encoding technique as they were unordered in nature.

In order to get normally distributed data we have applied various transformation techniques such as Logarithmic Transformation, Exponential Transformation, Square root Transformation and some others as well and plotted the quantie-quantile plot to visualize how far our data points are from the normal distribution.To scale the data We used the sklearn library StandardScaler.

Now as we are ready with our final features we splitted it into training and testing sets. Next, we choose some machine learning algorithms and use the training data to train the model. Finally, we evaluated the model's performance on the testing data to see how well it is able to predict the sales for the real time data. For this task we used many machine learning algorithms, such as linear regression, decision trees, random forests, LightGBM and XGboost. For the less complex models like Linear Regression, we could achieve the r2 score of 0.75 and accuracy i.e 100-MAPE of 93% even after applying regularisation techniques such as Lasso,Ridge and Elstic Net. In order to capture more variance and train our model more aptly, we decided to go for more complex models one by one. After training our datasets on decision trees, random forests, LightGBM and XGboost, we could gather the r2 score of 0.94 with the best accuracy of 97% using XGboost with mean absolute percentage error of only 2%. Also we got the mean of residuals as 0.0 which is indicating towards perfectly normally distributed residuals which is one of the good characteristics of good residual plot. From the above experiments and identifications, we have choosen the XGboost as our final optimal model among all 5 models for deployment as it is predicting the highest accuracy with the least error.

Overall, while building a machine learning model on Rossman Sales Prediction Data, we applied combination of data processing, machine learning techniques, and model evaluation skills. It was a challenging task and we faced some failures as well but with the right approach and knowledge, we successfully created a model that can accurately predict sales upto six weeks in advance!
